FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Phelan, SM
   Puhl, RM
   Burke, SE
   Hardeman, R
   Dovidio, JF
   Nelson, DB
   Przedworski, J
   Burgess, DJ
   Perry, S
   Yeazel, MW
   van Ryn, M
AF Phelan, Sean M.
   Puhl, Rebecca M.
   Burke, Sara E.
   Hardeman, Rachel
   Dovidio, John F.
   Nelson, David B.
   Przedworski, Julia
   Burgess, Diana J.
   Perry, Sylvia
   Yeazel, Mark W.
   van Ryn, Michelle
TI The mixed impact of medical school on medical students' implicit and
   explicit weight bias
SO MEDICAL EDUCATION
AB CONTEXT Health care trainees demonstrate implicit (automatic, unconscious) and explicit (conscious) bias against people from stigmatised and marginalised social groups, which can negatively influence communication and decision making. Medical schools are well positioned to intervene and reduce bias in new physicians.
   OBJECTIVES This study was designed to assess medical school factors that influence change in implicit and explicit bias against individuals from one stigmatised group: people with obesity.
   METHODS This was a prospective cohort study of medical students enrolled at 49 US medical schools randomly selected from all US medical schools within the strata of public and private schools and region. Participants were 1795 medical students surveyed at the beginning of their first year and end of their fourth year. Web-based surveys included measures of weight bias, and medical school experiences and climate. Bias change was compared with changes in bias in the general public over the same period. Linear mixed models were used to assess the impact of curriculum, contact with people with obesity, and faculty role modelling on weight bias change.
   RESULTS Increased implicit and explicit biases were associated with less positive contact with patients with obesity and more exposure to faculty role modelling of discriminatory behaviour or negative comments about patients with obesity. Increased implicit bias was associated with training in how to deal with difficult patients. On average, implicit weight bias decreased and explicit bias increased during medical school, over a period of time in which implicit weight bias in the general public increased and explicit bias remained stable.
   CONCLUSIONS Medical schools may reduce students' weight biases by increasing positive contact between students and patients with obesity, eliminating unprofessional role modelling by faculty members and residents, and altering curricula focused on treating difficult patients.
RI Burgess, Diana/A-1946-2016
SN 0308-0110
EI 1365-2923
PD OCT
PY 2015
VL 49
IS 10
BP 983
EP 992
DI 10.1111/medu.12770
UT WOS:000363514300007
PM 26383070
ER

EF