FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Ji, MY
   Caire, G
   Molisch, AF
AF Ji, Mingyue
   Caire, Giuseppe
   Molisch, Andreas F.
TI Wireless Device-to-Device Caching Networks: Basic Principles and System
   Performance
SO IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS
AB As wireless video is the fastest growing form of data traffic, methods for spectrally efficient on-demand wireless video streaming are essential to both service providers and users. A key property of video on-demand is the asynchronous content reuse, such that a few popular files account for a large part of the traffic but are viewed by users at different times. Caching of content on wireless devices in conjunction with device-to-device (D2D) communications allows to exploit this property, and provide a network throughput that is significantly in excess of both the conventional approach of unicasting from cellular base stations and the traditional D2D networks for "regular" data traffic. This paper presents in a tutorial and concise form some recent results on the throughput scaling laws of wireless networks with caching and asynchronous content reuse, contrasting the D2D approach with other alternative approaches such as conventional unicasting, harmonic broadcasting, and a novel coded multicasting approach based on caching in the user devices and network-coded transmission from the cellular base station only. Somehow surprisingly, the D2D scheme with spatial reuse and simple decentralized random caching achieves the same near-optimal throughput scaling law as coded multicasting. Both schemes achieve an unbounded throughput gain (in terms of scaling law) with respect to conventional unicasting and harmonic broadcasting, in the relevant regime where the number of video files in the library is smaller than the total size of the distributed cache capacity in the network. To better understand the relative merits of these competing approaches, we consider a holistic D2D system design incorporating traditional microwave (2 GHz) and millimeter-wave (mm-wave) D2D links; the direct connections to the base station can be used to provide those rare video requests that cannot be found in local caches. We provide extensive simulation results under a variety of system settings and compare our scheme with the systems that exploit transmission from the base station only. We show that, also in realistic conditions and nonasymptotic regimes, the proposed D2D approach offers very significant throughput gains.
SN 0733-8716
EI 1558-0008
PD JAN
PY 2016
VL 34
IS 1
BP 176
EP 189
DI 10.1109/JSAC.2015.2452672
UT WOS:000367336800014
ER

EF