FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Goodman, D
   Ogrinc, G
   Davies, L
   Baker, GR
   Barnsteiner, J
   Foster, TC
   Gali, K
   Hilden, J
   Horwitz, L
   Kaplan, HC
   Leis, J
   Matulis, JC
   Michie, S
   Miltner, R
   Neily, J
   Nelson, WA
   Niedner, M
   Oliver, B
   Rutman, L
   Thomson, R
   Thor, J
AF Goodman, Daisy
   Ogrinc, Greg
   Davies, Louise
   Baker, G. Ross
   Barnsteiner, Jane
   Foster, Tina C.
   Gali, Kari
   Hilden, Joanne
   Horwitz, Leora
   Kaplan, Heather C.
   Leis, Jerome
   Matulis, John C.
   Michie, Susan
   Miltner, Rebecca
   Neily, Julia
   Nelson, William A.
   Niedner, Matthew
   Oliver, Brant
   Rutman, Lori
   Thomson, Richard
   Thor, Johan
TI MH Explanation and elaboration of the SQUIRE (Standards for Quality
   Improvement Reporting Excellence) Guidelines, V.2.0: examples of SQUIRE
   elements in the healthcare improvement literature
SO BMJ QUALITY & SAFETY
AB Since its publication in 2008, SQUIRE (Standards for Quality Improvement Reporting Excellence) has contributed to the completeness and transparency of reporting of quality improvement work, providing guidance to authors and reviewers of reports on healthcare improvement work. In the interim, enormous growth has occurred in understanding factors that influence the success, and failure, of healthcare improvement efforts. Progress has been particularly strong in three areas: the understanding of the theoretical basis for improvement work; the impact of contextual factors on outcomes; and the development of methodologies for studying improvement work. Consequently, there is now a need to revise the original publication guidelines. To reflect the breadth of knowledge and experience in the field, we solicited input from a wide variety of authors, editors and improvement professionals during the guideline revision process. This Explanation and Elaboration document (E&E) is a companion to the revised SQUIRE guidelines, SQUIRE 2.0. The product of collaboration by an international and interprofessional group of authors, this document provides examples from the published literature, and an explanation of how each reflects the intent of a specific item in SQUIRE. The purpose of the guidelines is to assist authors in writing clearly, precisely and completely about systematic efforts to improve the quality, safety and value of healthcare services. Authors can explore the SQUIRE statement, this E&E and related documents in detail at http://www.squire-statement.org.
RI Leis, Jerome/V-5247-2017
SN 2044-5415
EI 2044-5423
PD DEC
PY 2016
VL 25
IS 12
AR UNSP e7
DI 10.1136/bmjqs-2015-004411
UT WOS:000388323100001
PM 27076505
ER

EF