FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Duclos, V
AF Duclos, Vincent
TI The map and the territory: an ethnographic study of the low utilisation
   of a global eHealth network
SO JOURNAL OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
AB Recent years were marked by the implementation of many eHealth projects using information and communication technologies to provide health services in developing countries. While generating great expectations, these projects remain poorly documented and available data suggest high failure rates. This raises a practical question: How are such eHealth networks to be effectively designed and implemented? This paper addresses this question. Specifically, it presents an ethnographic study of the Pan-African e-Network, a project which connects many hospitals all across India and Africa, providing medical teleconsultations and distance learning services. The study investigates the low utilisation of the network, an issue undermining its potential and efficiency. Factors contributing to this situation include communication barriers, the presumed ego of doctors, poor awareness of the project, and a lack of flexibility to work with the specificities of the connected sites. Above all, these factors point towards a dichotomous approach across the project's design and implementation, and taking two distinct yet related forms: (a) an ontological divide between technical and 'non-technical' domains; (b) a political sorting out of what is and what is not the project, aimed at neutralising and accounting for heterogeneous processes and practices. In both cases, low utilisation reveals tensions between processes of closure and control, and the openness of a life that will not be contained. Ultimately, this paper intends to destabilise binary modes of thinking as they crystallise oppositions between design and implementation, project and context, technical and social worlds, efficacy and improvisation, mastery and unruliness, map and territory.
SN 0268-3962
EI 1466-4437
PD DEC
PY 2016
VL 31
IS 4
BP 334
EP 346
DI 10.1057/jit.2016.3
UT WOS:000391900900002
ER

EF