FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Lyytinen, K
   Yoo, Y
   Boland, RJ
AF Lyytinen, Kalle
   Yoo, Youngjin
   Boland, Richard J., Jr.
TI Digital product innovation within four classes of innovation networks
SO INFORMATION SYSTEMS JOURNAL
AB The increased digitization of organizational processes and products poses new challenges for understanding product innovation. It also opens new horizons for information systems research. We analyse how ongoing pervasive digitization of product innovation reshapes knowledge creation and sharing in innovation networks. We argue that advances in digital technologies (1) increase innovation network connectivity by reducing communication costs and increasing its reach and scope and (2) increase the speed and scope of digital convergence, which increases network knowledge heterogeneity and need for integration. These developments, in turn, stretch existing innovation networks by redistributing control and increasing the demand for knowledge coordination across time and space presenting novel challenges for knowledge creation, assimilation and integration. Based on this foundation, we distinguish four types of emerging innovation networks supported by digitalization: (1) project innovation networks; (2) clan innovation networks; (3) federated innovation networks; and (4) anarchic innovation networks. Each network involves different cognitive and social translations - or ways of identifying, sharing and assimilating knowledge. We describe the role of five novel properties of digital infrastructures in supporting each type of innovation network: representational flexibility, semantic coherence, temporal and spatial traceability, knowledge brokering and linguistic calibration. We identify several implications for future innovation research. In particular, we focus on the emergence of anarchic network forms that follow full-fledged digital convergence founded on richer innovation ontologies and epistemologies calling to critically re-examine the nature and impact of modularization for innovation.
SN 1350-1917
EI 1365-2575
PD JAN
PY 2016
VL 26
IS 1
BP 47
EP 75
DI 10.1111/isj.12093
UT WOS:000367014800005
ER

EF