FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Mortimer, KS
   Wortham, S
AF Mortimer, Katherine S.
   Wortham, Stanton
TI Analyzing Language Policy and Social Identification Across Heterogeneous
   Scales
SO ANNUAL REVIEW OF APPLIED LINGUISTICS
AB Attempts to improve education often change how language is used in schools. Many such efforts aim to include minoritized students by more fully including their languages. These are often met with resistance not so much about language but more about identity. Thus processes of social identification are implicated in efforts to change language in education. If we are to understand how identity and language policy interconnect, we must analyze how stability and change are produced in each. This requires attention to macro-level patterns and to micro-level practices. But a two-scale account-micro instantiation of macro categories and micro changes shaping macro structures-does not adequately explain identity and language policy. This article focuses on educational language policy implementation, how language use and social identification change in an evolving policy context. We argue that change and stability in language policy implementation must be explained with reference to heterogeneous resources from multiple timescales-beyond micro and macro-as these resources establish and change social identities. We review recent research using multiple timescales to understand social processes like identification and policy implementation, and we illustrate the use of such a scalar account to describe the social identification of one student in a sixth grade classroom in Paraguay in the midst of a major national educational language policy change. We show how a person's identification as a new kind of minority language speaker involved heterogeneous resources from various spatiotemporal scales. We argue that analysis of the heterogeneous resources involved in social identification is essential to understanding the role that these processes play in cultural, pedagogical, and language change.
SN 0267-1905
EI 1471-6356
PY 2015
VL 35
BP 160
EP 172
DI 10.1017/S0267190514000269
UT WOS:000351470600009
ER

EF