FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Ning, FD
   Cong, WL
   Qiu, JJ
   Wei, JH
   Wang, SR
AF Ning, Fuda
   Cong, Weilong
   Qiu, Jingjing
   Wei, Junhua
   Wang, Shiren
TI Additive manufacturing of carbon fiber reinforced thermoplastic
   composites using fused deposition modeling
SO COMPOSITES PART B-ENGINEERING
AB Additive manufacturing (AM) technologies have been successfully applied in various applications. Fused deposition modeling (FDM), one of the most popular AM techniques, is the most widely used method for fabricating thermoplastic parts those are mainly used as rapid prototypes for functional testing with advantages of low cost, minimal wastage, and ease of material change. Due to the intrinsically limited mechanical properties of pure thermoplastic materials, there is a critical need to improve mechanical properties for FDM-fabricated pure thermoplastic parts. One of the possible methods is adding reinforced materials (such as carbon fibers) into plastic materials to form thermoplastic matrix carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) composites those could be directly used in the actual application areas, such as aerospace, automotive, and wind energy. This paper is going to present FDM of thermoplastic matrix CFRP composites and test if adding carbon fiber (different content and length) can improve the mechanical properties of FDM-fabricated parts. The CFRP feedstock filaments were fabricated from plastic pellets and carbon fiber powders for FDM process. After FDM fabrication, effects on the tensile properties (including tensile strength, Young's modulus, toughness, yield strength, and ductility) and flexural properties (including flexural stress, flexural modulus, flexural toughness, and flexural yield strength) of specimens were experimentally investigated. In order to explore the parts fracture reasons during tensile and flexural tests, fracture interface of CFRP composite specimens after tensile testing and flexural testing was observed and analyzed using SEM micrograph. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
SN 1359-8368
EI 1879-1069
PD OCT
PY 2015
VL 80
BP 369
EP 378
DI 10.1016/j.compositesb.2015.06.013
UT WOS:000358968800039
ER

EF