FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Oberleithner, K
   Stohr, M
   Im, SH
   Arndt, CM
   Steinberg, AM
AF Oberleithner, Kilian
   Stoehr, Michael
   Im, Seong Ho
   Arndt, Christoph M.
   Steinberg, Adam M.
TI Formation and flame-induced suppression of the precessing vortex core in
   a swirl combustor: Experiments and linear stability analysis
SO COMBUSTION AND FLAME
AB The precessing vortex core (PVC) is a coherent flow structure that is often encountered in swirling flows in gas turbine (GT) combustors. In some swirl combustors, it has been observed that a PVC is present under non-reacting conditions but disappears in the corresponding reacting cases. Since numerous studies have shown that a PVC has strong effects on the flame stabilization, it is desirable to understand the formation and suppression of PVCs in GT combustors. The present work experimentally studies the flow field in a GT model combustor at atmospheric pressure. Whereas all non-reacting conditions and detached M-shaped flames exhibit a PVC, the PVC is suppressed for attached V-shaped flames. A local linear stability analysis is then applied to the measured time-averaged velocity and density fields. For the cases where a PVC appeared in the experiment, the analysis shows a global hydrodynamic instability that manifests in a single-helical mode with its wavemaker located at the combustor inlet. The frequency of the global mode is in excellent agreement with the measured oscillation frequency and the growth rate is approximately zero, indicating the marginally stable limit-cycle. For the attached V-flame without PVC, strong radial density/temperature gradients are present at the inlet, which are shown to suppress the global instability. The interplay between the PVC and the flame is further investigated by considering a bi-stable case with intermittent transitions between V- and M-flame. The flame and flow transients are investigated experimentally via simultaneous highspeed PIV and OH-PLIF. The experiments reveal a sequence of events wherein the PVC forms prior to the transition of the flame shape. The results demonstrate the essential role of the PVC in the flame stabilization, and thereby the importance of a hydrodynamic stability analysis in the design of a swirl combustor. (C) 2015 The Combustion Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
OI Arndt, Christoph/0000-0003-0871-6620
SN 0010-2180
EI 1556-2921
PD AUG
PY 2015
VL 162
IS 8
BP 3100
EP 3114
DI 10.1016/j.combustflame.2015.02.015
UT WOS:000356999700010
ER

EF