TOP|2015-nov|2015/2015-nov_JA_10-1016_j-combustflame-2015-07-046_combustion-and-flame_julien_philippe.txt
COL|Journal Abstracts, Red Hen Lab
UID|7a82f654bd614fa893f3dcc2f4d8d54e
SRC|COMBUSTION AND FLAME
CMT|
CC1|ENG
TTL|Freely-propagating flames in aluminum dust clouds
CON|The free propagation of isobaric flames through aluminum dust clouds is investigated in an extensive series of experiments using two facilities with different scales. In small-scale laboratory experiments, spherical flame propagation occurs in aluminum dust clouds contained within 30-cm-diameter latex balloons, whereas in large-scale tests, flames propagate vertically through unconfined aluminum dust clouds with a vertical scale of about 4 m. The balloon experiments are performed with suspensions of aluminum powder in oxygen mixed with nitrogen, argon, or helium with various concentrations of oxygen and aluminum. It is found that stable flame propagation is only observed for aluminum concentrations near stoichiometric to rich conditions. Pulsating and spiral-like flames are discovered in fuel-lean mixtures, and flames with cellular patterns occur in very-fuel-rich suspensions. The burning velocities in the stable propagation regime derived from the balloon experiments correlate well with data previously obtained with stabilized Bunsen-type flames. The flame speed of stable flames is found to be a strong function of the heat conductivity of the gas mixture. In addition, the oxygen concentration has a strong influence on the flame speed for fuel-rich mixtures but dependence is reduced for fuel-lean mixtures. In the large-scale experiments, the burning velocity is estimated to be about two times larger than for the small-scale experiments. The increase in burning velocity is attributed to pre-heating of the unburned mixture by radiation from the condensed-phase combustion products. The degree of preheating, determined with an array of fine thermocouples, is found to be in the range of 150-200 K. The propagation of stable flames is discussed in light of existing qualitative dust flame models, whereas the pulsating flame propagation regime observed is interpreted in terms of the thermo-diffusive instability theory developed for high Lewis number flames in gases and solid reactive powder mixtures. (C) 2015 The Combustion Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
END|2015-nov|2015/2015-nov_JA_10-1016_j-combustflame-2015-07-046_combustion-and-flame_julien_philippe.txt
