TOP|2015-feb-1|2015/2015-feb-1_JA_10-1016_j-cma-2014-09-033_computer-methods-in-applied-mechanics-and-engineering_breitenberger.txt
COL|Journal Abstracts, Red Hen Lab
UID|e295536fab264a2ab91cfcabb6a2a3e5
SRC|COMPUTER METHODS IN APPLIED MECHANICS AND ENGINEERING
CMT|
CC1|ENG
TTL|Analysis in computer aided design: Nonlinear isogeometric B-Rep analysis of shell structures
CON|A new concept called analysis in computer aided design (AiCAD) is proposed for design-through-analysis workflow. This concept uses non-uniform rational B-Splines (NURBS)-based B-Rep models for the entire workflow. Such models consist of trimmed NURBS surfaces and are considered standard in the industry, especially for modeling free-form geometries. The newly developed isogeometric B-Rep analysis (IBRA) used in AiCAD is also presented. IBRA can be considered as a generalization of isogeometric analysis (IGA) that uses the boundary representation (B-Rep) of the design model in addition to the same basis functions as in IGA for approximating the solution fields. IBRA provides the framework for creating a direct and complete analysis model from computer aided design (CAD) in a consistent finite-element-like manner. Thus, IBRA allows analyzing a CAD model without remodeling and meshing, even for complex geometries. For the numerical integration of trimmed surfaces, the concept of nested Jacobian approach (NEJA) with NURBS surfaces is introduced. In addition, for enforcing the different types of boundary conditions or mechanical entities, a new finite element type called isogeometric B-Rep element is introduced. Elements of this type permit enforcing, e.g., coupling or Dirichlet boundary conditions. A corresponding formulation based on a penalty approach is presented as well. The proposed workflow is realized exemplarily for surface modeling and the geometrical nonlinear analysis of shell structures. The differences between the standard analysis procedure and the AiCAD workflow are explained in detail. Various numerical examples confirm the accuracy, flexibility, and robustness of the proposed IBRA concept, thus highlighting its advantages for the realization of design-through-analysis workflow with a uniform geometry representation. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
END|2015-feb-1|2015/2015-feb-1_JA_10-1016_j-cma-2014-09-033_computer-methods-in-applied-mechanics-and-engineering_breitenberger.txt
